---
title: >-
  I want to allow PWAs to be able to request permission to bypass the
  same-origin policy after install
date: 2019-11-26T22:33:18.153Z
submitter: David Barratt
number: 101
tags:
  - web-apps
  - privacy
  - security
---
If you wanted to create an RSS reader in the browser, it would not work because most RSS feeds do not use Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS), thereby disallowing the web app to consume the RSS feed (a cross-origin resource). This is a necessary protection because without it, it would be possible for a user to visit example.com and have example.com make a request to their router at 192.168.1.1. The same-origin policy prevents this.

There are, however, legitimate use-cases for when the user might want to violate the same-origin policy. For example, the aforementioned RSS reader.

To work around the same-origin policy, a developer must do one of the following:

1. have the user install a browser plugin that will modify the CORS headers,
2. have the user download and install a native (or electron) application, or
3. use a web-server to proxy public requests.

The first two options create a lot of friction for users, while the third option is an infrastructure burden on the app *and* violates the users' privacy since the proxy now is aware of all of the feeds a user subscribes to.

What if cross-origin requests were added as a permission that is gated by install? Installing a web app, should grant additional permissions similar to a native application; the user is explicitly granting trust to this application.
