---
title: I want simple geofencing
date: 2025-10-29T20:47:14.214Z
submitter: Christoph Päper
number: 88f9ba9b-e6c7-4b4d-9a05-176c013f5c14
tags: [ api, browsers, user-experience ]
discussion: https://github.com/WebWeWant/webwewant.fyi/discussions/300
status: discussing
---

Some geofencing is about locking out users from particular geographic regions, for example where a streaming service has only limited redistribution rights. It's in the provider's legal or commercial interest to restrict or redirect access to their site. This is not in the best interest of users, and therefore I don't want to make it any easier. Let providers keep using GeoIP services, which users can circumvent with VPNs if they choose.

Where geofencing is in the best interest of users is in online shopping, for instance. Sellers may have different local sites with an optimized catalog (e.g., currency, taxes, local regulations, electric plugs, clothing sizes) or handling (payment methods, shipping options). Visitors are therefore often asked whether they want to be redirected to a local shop, or if they have been redirected automatically, whether they want to keep that preselection. I wish there was a browser setting (similar to HTTP Accept-Language) for choosing a preferred location *without* exposing the actual geographic location of the host device as the Geolocation API does. Accordingly, the user would not need to give express permission to sites querying this information.

This should probably work with ISO 3166 codes. (They can be part of preferred language codes by BCP-47/ISO 639, but that's a different use case.) These codes are available for many continental regions (as three digits), for countries, and their administrative subdivisions.
